Welcome to JavaScript Fundamentals. I'm going to show you the basics of JavaScript programming.
JavaScript is a programming language that runs in the browser and on servers.
Let's start with variables. We can declare variables using let, const, or var.
The let keyword creates a block-scoped variable that can be reassigned.
The const keyword creates a constant that cannot be reassigned after declaration.
Here's an example: let message equals "Hello World".
Functions are reusable blocks of code. We can declare them using the function keyword.
Arrow functions provide a shorter syntax: const add equals parentheses a comma b parentheses arrow a plus b.
Objects store multiple values as key-value pairs inside curly braces.
Arrays store ordered lists of items inside square brackets.
We can access object properties using dot notation or bracket notation.
Array methods like map, filter, and reduce help us manipulate data efficiently.
Conditional statements like if-else help us make decisions in our code.
Loops like for and while help us repeat operations multiple times.
That covers the fundamental concepts of JavaScript programming.